HomeBuyingYour RightsAll-in Price Advertising All-in Price Advertising What is a motor vehicle ad? An ad is something that persuades or influences an individual to buy or lease a vehicle. This would include, but is not limited to ads: in print (for example, newspapers, magazines, etc.) on the internet (for example, dealer website, online marketplace, etc.) on social media on radio or TV on signs including those in or on a vehicle All-in price advertising is the law The price advertised for a motor vehicle must include all fees and charges the dealer intends to collect, with the exception of HST and licensing. Also, the advertised price must clearly and prominently indicate HST and licensing are not included. Examples Fees or charges that must be included in an advertised price: Freight PDI-PDE (pre-delivery inspection/expense) Administration (Admin) fee(s) and OMVIC transaction fee Government levies (air tax, etc.) Air tax, Ontario green levy tax, luxury tax, etc. Safety Unless the ad contains an unfit vehicle or as-is vehicle disclosure statement. Pre-installed products or services Nitrogen/tire protection package, warranties, security or theft deterrents (etching), fuel, etc. All fees and charges in the advertised price must be itemized and listed separately on a bill of sale. On September 1, 2022, the Government of Canada introduced a luxury tax on the sale or importation of motor vehicles with a retail sale price greater than $100,000. For more information visit the Government of Canada website. What if a dealer tries to add fees to an advertised price? Walk away, shop elsewhere and report the dealer to OMVIC’s Complaints & Inquiries Department. Exceptions to all-in price advertising Manufacturers OMVIC does not regulate vehicle manufacturers, so their ads do not have to comply with the MVDA and all-in pricing is not required. Unfit vehicle Ads for vehicles being sold as unfit (for example, has not passed a safety inspection), will not include the cost for safety certification. However, the ad must clearly state “this vehicle is not driveable and not certified.” If a dealer intends to offer safety certification, the cost must be disclosed and the ad must state “certification is available for $XXX.” This charge cannot be mandatory. All other fees the dealer intends to charge (for example, admin fee, etc.) must be included. Advertising a vehicle sold "as is" If an ad includes a price for a vehicle being sold as is, the ad must state This vehicle is being sold “as is,” unfit, not e-tested and is not represented as being in road worthy condition, mechanically sound or maintained at any guaranteed level of quality. The vehicle may not be fit for use as a means of transportation and may require substantial repairs at the purchaser’s expense. It may not be possible to register the vehicle to be driven in its current condition. The advertised price for a vehicle sold as is, will not include the cost of a safety certificate . All other fees the dealer intends to charge (e.g., admin fee etc.) must be included. Joint ad with two or more dealers If an ad has been placed by two or more dealers, and there is a difference in the value of a fee being charged from one dealer to another (e.g., an admin fee), that fee may be excluded from the all-in price. However, the fee must be disclosed separately in the ad, along with a description of what the fee is for (e.g., the above price does not include admin fees, which vary from $XX to $XX, depending on the dealer).