Transportation Learning to get around a new city can be challenging. Find out how more about driver's licenses, public transit, and other transportation options. Driver's LicenceCarsPublic TransitWalking and Cycling Driver's LicenceHow do I get an Ontario driver's licence?The process to get an Ontario driver's licence depends on if you are a new driver, or if you have had a driver's licence before.Is the International Driver's Permit (IDP) valid in Canada?The International Driver's License (IDL) is valid in Canada. Also known as International Driving Permit (IDP), is usually valid for a year in most countries and can be renewed.What if my driver's licence is lost or stolen?You may want to report it to the police. You can apply for a replacement licence.I have a driver's licence from another country. How do I get an Ontario driver's licence?You may be able to exchange it for an Ontario driver's licence. The type of licence you can get depends on how much driving experience you have and if the country has a reciprocal agreement with Ontario.I have a driver's licence from another province in Canada. How do I get an Ontario driver's licence?Your previous driving experience may help you get an Ontario driver's licence faster than a new driver.What kind of ID can I get, if I don't have a driver's licence?The Ontario Photo Card is government-issued identification (ID) that you can get instead of a driver's licence.See moreGo UpCarsCan I bring my pet to Canada?Whether you are bringing a new pet home to Canada or bringing your beloved furry family member to join you in Canada there are things to keep in mind. What do I need to know about vehicle licensing?All vehicles in Ontario must be registered and insured. If you own a vehicle, you are responsible for making sure it meets the requirements.What should I think about when buying a car?There are a number of things to consider when buying a car including cost, size and type.See moreGo UpPublic TransitWhat can I do if I’m harassed on the street or public transit?Tips on what to do if you're being harassed in public.How do I get special needs transportation?Your local public transportation system may have transportation assistance for people with special needs.How do I use public transportation?Most cities in Ontario have a local public transportation (transit) system. The cost to use public transportation is different in each city.See moreGo UpWalking and CyclingHow can staying physically active protect my health?Exercising regularly can help you stay healthy so you can be physically fit and emotionally strong to better cope with the stress factors that you may experience when you immigrate to your new country.What should I do if I get into a collision while cycling?A collision can be traumatic. If you get into one, try to stay calm and take your time to assess the situation. Do not get back on your bicycle right away.The Toronto Cyclists HandbookThis guide covers all you need to know about riding your bike in the city. See moreGo Up