<iframe src="https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-WH9SVW" height="0" width="0" style="display:none;visibility:hidden"></iframe> YMCA OF GREATER TORONTOImmigrant ServicesLearn or improve your English and French, attend information sessions to get to know your new community better, get settlement advice and assistance; all free! Free Help For NewcomersAll the resources you need to settle in.Meet friendly staff and get the support you need to get started. Do you:Want to learn or improve English and/or French or both? Book an appointment.Plan to move to Canada?Want to learn more about Canadian culture?Need employment? Check out our employment services We provideThe YMCA is the first stop for thousands of new immigrants every year!Support in nearly 60 languagesA variety of interactive programs and information sessionsGuest speakers from the communityMeaningful volunteer opportunities and networkingNew immigrant youth servicesPre-arrival Settlement Services (Next Stop Canada)A connection to refugee resettlement services in Canada Immigrant ServicesNewcomer Information CentreThe YMCA Newcomer Information Centre is the first choice for thousands of newcomers every year when they are looking for information to start their new life in Canada. Our friendly, multilingual and knowledgeable staff provides free access to information and referral services.Language Assessment and Referral ServicesThe YMCA Language Assessment and Referral Service provide immigrants in Canada with English and/or French language assessment for government-funded programs at no cost.Newcomer Youth Leadership Development Program (NYLD)The Newcomer Youth Leadership Development (NYLD) program is designed to help newcomer youth and parents have a positive settlement experience. NYLD offers safe, supportive and empowering spaces where you and your family can become active and engaged new Canadians.Next Stop CanadaNext Stop Canada, YMCA's Pre-Arrival Settlement service, offers online settlement information, orientations and referral services to eligible individuals living overseas with the intention to come to Canada. We help participants prepare for immigration and will create a direct link to settlement services in Canada. Helping Newcomer Families Build Brighter FuturesAs Syria’s humanitarian crisis unfolded, Alaa and Nabil Al Hawa made the painful decision to flee with their children, Mohamad, 15, Assia, 12, Omama, 8, and Nawras, 4. “It was a hard leap to get to this new life in Canada,” says Nabil.But they quickly started to make connections in their new community, joining the Cooper Koo Family YMCA with support from our financial assistance program.At the Y, the whole family swims together; Nabil volunteers at the front desk; and Mohamad is making friends through our free Newcomer Youth Leadership Development program.For the first time in a long time, the Al Hawa kids just get to be kids. “Our ambition is to build a good future here in Canada,” says Alaa. Nabil agrees: “Our children belong, they can be happy, successful, and contribute. Here, anything is possible.” When you give to the Y, you help families like the Al Hawas get through challenging transitions and build brighter futures.Learn More About Our Charitable Impact New to Canada? Make a Fresh StartThe ECE Bridge to Work Program prepares newcomers to Canada for successful employment in child care. This free program includes:Pre-employment training to prepare you for the Canadian workplace.A paid work placement at a YMCA of Greater Toronto child care setting.We are currently recruiting.Learn More Shine on at the Y Did you know that the YMCA is a charity that helps everyone, at all ages and life stages? Explore all our programs and find the best options to keep you and your family shining bright. All Programs