Feel at home in Canada Starting afresh in a new country isn’t easy. We are here to make sure you don’t feel alone. We will help you find a job, learn English or settle into your new home, with care and respect. Browse our services Notice Closure Notice Our offices will be closed on Monday, October 12 for Thanksgiving. Regular business hours will resume on Tuesday, October 13. We wish all our clients, partners and community members a peaceful and restful holiday with loved ones. Notice COSTI Employment Services (Toronto) has moved! Starting September 1, COSTI Employment Services (Toronto) has temporarily moved to: 1700 Wilson Avenue, Unit 201, Sheridan Mall, North York, ON, M3L1B2 Our services will remain unaffected. Call: 416-789-7925 Email: [email protected] Previous Next Pause Get started with COSTI Find a job in Canada Learn more Find a home in Canada Learn more Get social and family support Health, wellness and social support Learn languages and skills English language training Skills training Who is COSTI? COSTI is an award-winning agency that has been serving newcomers in Greater Toronto’s communities for more than 70 years. Every year, more than 50,000 individuals trust COSTI to learn skills, find jobs and begin their Canadian journey. In 2025, the City of Toronto officially recognized COSTI as a City Champion for city-wide impact. Learn about our history How can we help? COSTI has 17 offices across the Greater Toronto Area and also offers online support, so you can get help wherever you are. Our team speaks over 60 languages and treats everyone with care and respect. We offer a wide range of services to meet your every need. Settle in Canada quickly and confidently with COSTI. Discover our programs Thank you COSTI for standing beside us throughout our journey. Froogh Sadeqi Learn more about English language training Health, wellness and social support Froogh Sadeqi Creating a home isn’t just about checking off boxes like housing and jobs. It’s about finding your place so you can thrive and contribute to the fabric of Canada. At COSTI, we make sure no one feels left behind. Because home is more than a place. It’s a feeling of belonging. Upcoming events and workshops Register today for a bright future! See all events Previous Next Networking Strategies: Using LinkedIn Oct 09 Fri Virtual 10:00AM ET View Careers in Skilled Trades: Pathways and Opportunities Oct 09 Fri Virtual 2:00PM ET View How to Present International Experience Oct 13 Tue Virtual 10:00AM ET View Writing a Strategic Resume Oct 13 Tue Virtual 10:00AM ET View Completing Online Job Applications Effectively Oct 13 Tue Virtual 2:00PM ET View Expressway Cybersecurity Bridging Program – Information Session Oct 14 Wed Virtual 10:00AM ET View Behavioural Interview Questions: Practice and Strategies Oct 14 Wed Virtual 10:00AM ET View Guest Speaker: COSTI Employment Services Oct 14 Wed Virtual 2:00PM ET View Need help? We’re here for you. Not sure where to start? Our team would be happy to help you. Contact COSTI