Skip Breadcrumb LinksDaily LifeTransportationCars What should I think about when buying a car? Ask yourself these questions: How will I use this car? Will I be driving in the city or on the highway, or both? Do I need a family car? What might I need in the future? Which safety factors are important to me? Do I want a new or used car? What car insurance can I afford? Should I buy or lease? Do I feel comfortable negotiating with a car salesperson? Costs It can be expensive to own and drive a car. You must pay for the operating costs (such as gas and maintenance) and ownership costs (such as insurance and a car loan). If you need your car for work, these costs may be higher but your employer may pay for some of them. Driving Costs Calculator - A tool to help you compare the costs of owning and driving a car in Canada. Choosing a Car You should read car reviews, comparisons and consumer surveys. Look for information about price, safety, reliability, and customer reviews. Licensing and Registration You must register and insure your vehicle - it is the law. You must also have valid car insurance and a valid driver’s licence. Car Contracts In Ontario, there is no cooling-off period when you buy a car (you normally have 10 days to cancel a contract). However, under the Motor Vehicle Dealers Act, if certain information is missing from a contract, you may be able to cancel it. Find out more about cancelling a car contract. For More Information Car Repair Shops: Your Rights - Tips on how to find a good repair shop and information about your rights as a consumer. From the Ministry of Public and Business Service Delivery and Procurement. Consumer Beware List - This is a list of businesses, including car repair shops, that consumers have complained about to the Ministry of Public and Business Service Delivery and Procurement. It provides details on the nature of the complaint and if any charges were laid. Buy or sell a used vehicle in Ontario - Your rights and responsibilities under the law. From the Ministry of Transportation. Dealer and Salesperson Search - This website lists car dealers that are registered with the Ontario Motor Vehicle Industry Council (OMVIC). All professional dealers in Ontario are required by law to register with OMVIC. Last updated: January 21, 2025 4000247 TransportationDriver's LicenceCarsPublic TransitWalking and Cycling Find Services Near Me Need help? Talk to 211 now (Live Chat)