We’ve spent 50 years supporting our community Help us build a better future for people like Yasmine. Donate At ACSA, we envision a world where everyone has an equal chance to thrive.Do you believe in a world where everyone has equal opportunities, where community support helps dreams come true? ACSA Community Services is your gateway to making this vision a reality. As a cornerstone of the community for over 50 years, ACSA has been dedicated to uplifting those in need. We offer vital programs like youth empowerment initiatives, emergency food and housing services, and newcomer supports to help individuals and families thrive. We are diligent in supporting our neighbours in Scarborough and North York.ACSA is a non-profit, multi-service agency holistically addressing community needs to build a better tomorrow. By getting involved, you're not just giving aid; you're becoming a part of our mission to build a brighter, more equitable future. Learn about ACSA Access Services “ACSA is helping people. They are helping people to establish themselves, especially newcomers like me, who are new to Canada. Donating to this program will be helping people like me get different resources and people to assist” — LW, Program Participant Issues our neighbours faceACSA provides vital services to a diverse group of individuals facing a range of complex issues. Here are some of the challenges that the individuals and families served by ACSA may face: Addiction: The effects of addiction can be devastating and can impact every aspect of a person's life, including their physical and mental health, relationships, and financial stability. Newcomers to Canada: Language barriers, cultural differences, and a lack of social support can all make it difficult for newcomers to access the resources and services they need to thrive in their new home. Homelessness and Precarious Housing: Many individuals and families are forced to live in precarious living conditions, such as overcrowded or unsafe housing. These conditions can lead to a range of health and safety concerns, including exposure to toxins, mold, and other environmental hazards. Homelessness is a significant issue facing many individuals in our communities. Living on the streets can expose individuals to a range of health risks, including malnutrition, exposure to the elements, and violence. Social Isolation: Social isolation is a growing concern, particularly among seniors, people with disabilities, and those living in poverty. Social isolation can have a negative impact on mental health and can lead to a range of physical health issues, including obesity and disease. Low Wages and Low Social Assistance Rates: Many individuals in our communities are employed in low-wage jobs that do not provide enough income to cover basic living essentials, such as rent, and food. This and low social assistance rates can make it difficult for individuals to access the resources they need to live healthy and fulfilling lives, such as adequate food and shelter. 1/4 live aloneA quarter of Scarborough’s population lives in single-person households. Social isolation is an objective condition that can lead to anxiety or depression. 55% immigrantOut of 111,560 residents, 61,670 immigrated to Canada at some point in their lives. Over 90 thousand of all Scarborough residents are Canadian citizens. $31,600Median after-tax income in 2020 in Scarborough, according to StatsCan. The median employment income was $38,800. Our program areas Newcomer Supports Child, Youth, and Family Aid Emergency Food Access Homelessness Prevention and Housing Learn about our impact Newsletter Block This newsletter signup form needs a storage option. Edit the block and enter a storage location via the Storage tab. First Name Last Name Email Address Sign Up Thank you! Get acquainted with ACSA, today.