Reddit Help Rules & Reporting Account and community restrictions Do not use Reddit for repeated or unsolicited mass engagement. Spam – defined as repeated or unsolicited actions (whether automated or manual) that negatively affect users, communities, and/or Reddit itself – is never allowed. Spammers compromise everyone's use of Reddit by artificially inflating exposure to unwanted or irrelevant content. What are some things that may violate this policy? Mass-posting repetitive content for the purpose of exposure or financial gain. Mass-tagging other users or sending large amounts of unsolicited chat or private messages. Repeatedly posting or sharing old content for the purpose of rapidly gaining karma. Using tools (e.g., bots, generative AI tools) that may break Reddit or facilitate the proliferation of spam. Link-masking or redirecting to harmful domains. Leveraging multiple accounts to artificially inflate the subscriber count of a subreddit. Some examples of policy violations Programming a bot that continuously promotes specific products or services within a community or across many communities. Sending large amounts of unsolicited private messages to expose others to harmful links, such as malware, phishing, deceptive pop-ups, etc. Repeatedly posting unrelated/off-topic/link-farmed content that disrupts conversations within a community. Repeatedly sharing "not-safe for-work" content in "safe-for-work" spaces. Automating the creation of multiple Reddit accounts or communities. How do I avoid being labeled as a spammer? Post authentic content into communities where you have a personal interest. If your contributions to Reddit consist primarily of links to a business that you run, own, or otherwise benefit from, please be thoughtful about the frequency of posting, or consider advertising opportunities using our self-serve platform. If you’re unsure if your content is considered spam, check to see if the community you want to engage with has specific rules in addition to the guidelines above. (Note that community moderators adjudicate what constitutes unwanted/spammy content in their communities and may take action accordingly.) You may also contact the moderators of the community if you need additional clarifications. How can I report potential spam/spammers? To report potential spam, please use the report button next to the content you’d like to report in the app or on Reddit.com.For more information, please visit Reddit's enforcement philosophy. You can also learn about our policy enforcement data in the latest Reddit Transparency Report. ✕ Was this article helpful? Yes No We're sorry the article wasn't helpful. Please let us know why! Inaccurate: information doesn't match what I'm seeing Confusing: information is unclear or translation is wrong Missing information: it's not comprehensive enough Other: suggestions to improve content Thanks for your feedback! Get in touch Still have questions? If you didn't find what you need, contact us or visit r/modsupport or r/help for more help. Submit a request Still need help as a user? Come check out r/help and see if other Reddit users can help you out. Although this isn't an official Reddit community, you'll find admins here as well. Still need help as a moderator? Come check out r/modsupport! Here you can post mod tool-related questions for Reddit admins.